1. What's a distributed system in MongoDB?
A distributed system in MongoDB includes both replica sets-- or Replica Clusters-- 
for a high availability solution, and Shard Clusters.
Shard Clusters are our mechanism to allow horizontal scalability of our data.
Sharding 给了MongoDB 水平扩展的能力。

Sharding is a method for distributing data across multiple machines. 
MongoDB uses sharding to support deployments with very large data sets and high throughput operations.

Sharding is an extremely important topic for large-scale systems that will impact your design decisions. 
Most systems do not reach sizes that require Sharding. 
However if your system is already sharded or you are sure that your system will need to be, 
you should get familiar with the main concepts of Sharding.

大多数应用其实都不需要Sharding，如果确实大数据需要sharding,设计时就应该重新考虑。

https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/sharding/

2. What should be considered in a distributed system in MongoDB?
1) When more than one machine talks to each other, latency will be involved.
比读从的情况，MongoDB都是写主，主同步到从，就会有延迟。

2) read implications and write implications
Data is generally spread across different nodes. 
It's either copies of the data or different sets of data in different charts.
There will be read implications, so things will be performing in a different pace, 
and obviously, also, write implications.

3. Having a replica set in place is super, super important.
A replica set in MongoDB is a group of mongod processes that maintain the same data set. 
Replica sets provide redundancy and high availability, and are the basis for all production deployments. 
This section introduces replication in MongoDB as well as the components and architecture of replica sets. 
The section also provides tutorials for common tasks related to replica sets.
replica set 提供副本集，为了高可用。这点与Elasticsearch一样。

replica sets can also provide a few other functions：
1) offloading ventral consistency data to secondaries, 
2) privileging your primary for operational workload, 
3) having specific workload with target indexes configuration on secondary nodes.

Read Operations to Replica Sets:
By default, clients reads from a replica set's primary; 
however, clients can specify a read preference to direct read operations to other members. 
For example, clients can configure read preferences to read from secondaries or from nearest member to:
1) reduce latency in multi-data-center deployments,
2) improve read throughput by distributing high read-volumes (relative to write volume),
3) perform backup operations, and/or
4) allow reads until a new primary is elected.

Write operations to Replica Sets:
In replica sets, all write operations go to the set's primary. 
The primary applies the write operation and records the operations on the primary's operation log or oplog.
The oplog is a reproducible sequence of operations to the data set. 
secondary members of the set continuously replicate the oplog and apply the operations to themselves 
in an asynchronous process.

4. The other side of distributed systems in MongoDB, with a purpose of horizontal scalability, is our Shard Cluster.
In our Shard Cluster, 
A MongoDB sharded cluster consists of the following components:
1) shard: Each shard contains a subset of the sharded data. Each shard can be deployed as a replica set.
2) mongos: The mongos acts as a query router, providing an interface between client applications 
and the sharded cluster. Starting in MongoDB 4.4, mongos can support hedged reads to minimize latencies.
3) config servers: Config servers store metadata and configuration settings for the cluster.

MongoDB shards data at the collection level, distributing the collection data across the shards in the cluster.

Shard Nodes are in themselves replica sets.(分片本身就是副本集)

Read Operations to Sharded Clusters
Sharded clusters allow you to partition a data set among a cluster of mongod instances in a way 
that is nearly transparent to the application. 
For a sharded cluster, applications issue operations to one of the mongos instances associated
with the cluster.

Read operations on sharded clusters are most efficient when directed to a specific shard.
Queries to sharded collections should include the collection's shard key. 
When a query includes a shard key, the mongos can use cluster metadata from the config databases
to route the queries to shards.
在分片的情况下，通过shard key进行查询才能高效，这时候mongos会通过在config database里的元数据，路由到对应的
shards进行查询。

If a query does not include the shard key, the mongos must direct the query to all shards in the cluster.
These scatter gather queries can be inefficient. 
On larger clusters, scatter gather queries are unfeasible for routine operations.


Write Operations on Sharded Clusters
For sharded collections in a sharded cluster, the mongos directs write operations from applications 
to the shards that are responsible for the specific portion of the data set. 
The mongos uses the cluster metadata from the config database to route the write operation to the appropriate shards.

MongoDB partitions data in a sharded collection into ranges based on the values of the shard key. 
Then, MongoDB distributes these chunks to shards. 
The shard key determines the distribution of chunks to shards. 
This can affect the performance of write operations in the cluster.

参考资料：https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/distributed-queries/?jmp=university

5. What is shard key?
The shard key is either a single indexed field or multiple fields covered by a compound index 
that determines the distribution of the collection's documents among the cluster's shards.
If the collection is empty, sh.shardCollection() creates the index on the shard key if such an index does not already exists.
If the collection is not empty, you must create the index first before using sh.shardCollection().
shard key不是单个索引字段，就是复合索引覆盖的多个字段，在使用shardCollection()分片前，如果对应的collection不为空，
则需要先创建索引。

MongoDB can enforce a uniqueness constraint on a ranged shard key index. 
Through the use of a unique index on the shard key, MongoDB enforces uniqueness on the entire key 
combination and not individual components of the shard key.

For a ranged sharded collection, only the following indexes can be unique:
1）the index on the shard key
2）a compound index where the shard key is a prefix
3）the default _id index; however, the _id index only enforces the uniqueness constraint per shard 
if the _id field is not the shard key or the prefix of the shard key.

Simple Usage
Given a collection named people in a database named records, 
the following command shards the collection by the zipcode field:
sh.shardCollection("records.people", { zipcode: 1 } )


The key here is that we want to avoid monotonically increasing or decreasing values in our shard key.
Monotonically means in a way that either is always increasing or always decreasing.

The classic example of this is obectID.
Because of the way that objectID is designed, new object IDs will always increase in value.
Keep this in mind if you're using underscore IDs default data type, objectID, as your shard key.

As you can see, when we have a monotonically increasing shard key, all of our writes are going to the same shard, 
the shard that contains the chunk where the upper bound is max key.
As you can see, when we have a monotonically increasing shard key, all of our writes are going to the same shard.

This is the shard that contains the upper bound of max key, which is often referred to as the last shard.

If we were to have a monotonically decreasing value, then all of our writes would be coming in to this shard, 
the shard where the lower bound is set to min key, our first shard.

shard key单调增或者单调减,会使得数据都路由到一台机器上，因次要避免单调增和单调减。

Its OK to have a monotonically increasing value in your shard key, as long as it's not the first field.

Adding a monotonically increasing value to the end of our shard key actually is a great idea, 
because it increases the total cardinality of our shard key since it's guaranteed to always be unique.

参考资料：https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/sharding-shard-key/#std-label-shard-key


6. Bulk write
With an ordered list of operations, MongoDB executes the operations serially. 
If an error occurs during the processing of one of the write operations, 
MongoDB will return without processing any remaining write operations in the list. 
ordered 为true,那么按顺序执行，需要异常就退出，后面的就不执行了。

With an unordered list of operations, MongoDB can execute the operations in parallel, 
but this behavior is not guaranteed. 
If an error occurs during the processing of one of the write operations, 
MongoDB will continue to process remaining write operations in the list.
ordered为false,那么并行执行，一个执行失败不会影像其它。


Executing an ordered list of operations on a sharded collection will generally be slower than 
executing an unordered list since with an ordered list, 
each operation must wait for the previous operation to finish.
try {
    db.characters.bulkWrite(
       [
          { insertOne :
             {
                "document" :
                {
                   "_id" : 4, "char" : "Dithras", "class" : "barbarian", "lvl" : 4
                }
             }
          },
          { insertOne :
             {
                "document" :
                {
                   "_id" : 5, "char" : "Taeln", "class" : "fighter", "lvl" : 3
                }
             }
          },
          { updateOne :
             {
                "filter" : { "char" : "Eldon" },
                "update" : { $set : { "status" : "Critical Injury" } }
             }
          },
          { deleteOne :
             { "filter" : { "char" : "Brisbane" } }
          },
          { replaceOne :
             {
                "filter" : { "char" : "Meldane" },
                "replacement" : { "char" : "Tanys", "class" : "oracle", "lvl" : 4 }
             }
          }
       ],
       {"ordered": true}
    );
 }
 catch (e) {
    print(e);
 }

参考： https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/bulk-write-operations/?jmp=university


7. Aggregation Pipeline and Sharded Collections
The aggregation pipeline supports operations on sharded collections. 
This section describes behaviors specific to the aggregation pipeline and sharded collections.

1) Changed in version 3.2.
If the pipeline starts with an exact $match on a shard key, the entire pipeline runs 
on the matching shard only. Previously, the pipeline would have been split, 
and the work of merging it would have to be done on the primary shard.

2) Changed in version 3.6.
When aggregation operations run on multiple shards, the results are routed to the mongos to be merged, 
except in the following cases:
If the pipeline includes the $out or $lookup stages, the merge runs on the primary shard.
If the pipeline includes a sorting or grouping stage, and the allowDiskUse setting is enabled, 
the merge runs on a randomly-selected shard.


8. 分布式系统的垂直扩展和水平扩展
高并发（High Concurrency）是互联网分布式系统架构设计中必须考虑的因素之一，它通常是指，通过设计保证系统能够同时并行处理很多请求。提高系统并发能力的方式，方法论上主要有两种：垂直扩展（Scale Up）与水平扩展（Scale Out）。

1 垂直扩展：提升单机处理能力。垂直扩展的方式有：
增强单机硬件性能。如：升级CPU算力和核数，升级更好的网卡如万兆，升级更好的硬盘如SSD，扩充硬盘如2T，扩充内存如128G；
提升单机架构性能。如：使用Cache来减少IO次数，使用异步来增加单服务吞吐量，使用无锁数据结构来减少响应时间；
优点：单机优化易于配置且维护和管理开销最小，性能改善简单快捷；
缺点：增强单机硬件的购置成本高，并且有可能效益不高；单机性能总是有极限的，所以互联网分布式架构设计高并发的终极解决方案还是水平扩展。

2 水平扩展：通过增加服务器数量，从而线性扩充系统性能。水平扩展对系统架构设计是有要求的。
反向代理层的水平扩展：是通过“DNS轮询”实现的。dns-server对于一个域名配置了多个解析 ip，
每次DNS解析请求来访问 dns-server，会轮询返回这些 ip。
当nginx成为瓶颈的时候，只要增加服务器数量，新增 nginx 服务的部署，增加一个外网ip，就能扩展反向代理层的性能，
做到理论上的无限高并发。

站点层的水平扩展：是通过 nginx 实现的。通过修改nginx.conf，可以设置多个web后端。
当web后端成为瓶颈的时候，只要增加服务器数量，新增web服务的部署，在nginx中配置上新的web后端，就能扩展站点层的性能，
做到理论上的无限高并发。

服务层的水平扩展：是通过“服务连接池"实现的。
站点层通过RPC-client调用下游的服务层RPC-server时，RPC-client中的连接池会建立与下游服务多个连接，
当服务成为瓶颈的时候，只要增加服务器数量，新增服务部署，在RPC-client处建立新的下游服务连接，就能扩展服务层性能，
做到理论上的无限高并发。如果需要优雅的进行服务层自动扩容，这里可能需要配置中心里服务自动发现功能的支持。